hey this is pressure Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions simplify and
prove your answer to the following
expression you're not allowed to use
calculators or computers I received many
email requests for this type of problem
I think up shop in India for suggesting
it to me first can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for a
solution so how can we simplify this
expression I'll first write a as the
number that's under the first cube root
and then B will be a square root
conjugate that's under the second cube
root
notice that the cube root of a is a real
number and the cube root of B is a real
number so their sum will also be a real
number so in the end we're looking for a
real number now we'll set this entire
expression which is the cube root of a
plus the cube root of B we'll set that
equal to X now we'll cube both sides and
then we'll expand now let's simplify
this expression we'll first put the
squares inside of these cube roots
now we'll group these cube roots
together we can then write a squared as
a a and B squared as B B notice we have
an a/b term here and a B a term here and
they'll be equal to each other what's
the product of square root conjugates
the nice thing is it will be a
difference of squares and this
simplifies to be negative 5 cubed we'll
substitute that in and now negative 5
cubed if we take the cube root of that
we end up with negative 5 3 times
negative 5 is equal to negative 15 so we
then have negative 15 and we can group
the remaining terms which will be the
cube root of a plus the cube root of B
we now recall that X was defined to be
exactly this quantity so we can
substitute that in now a plus B will be
equal to just 16 because the square root
terms will cancel so we end up with a
simple polynomial expression X cubed is
equal to 16 minus 15 X if there is a
solution in this equation or looking for
a real value to be the answer to our
original expression so we write x cubed
plus 15 X minus 16 is equal to 0 how can
we solve this equation well usually you
can try special values and you'll
quickly see that X is equal to 1 is a
solution to this equation consequently X
minus 1 will be a factor of this
polynomial so we can factor this into
the following product of X minus 1 and
the quadratic x squared plus X plus 16
we can solve the quadratic using the
quadratic formula but we'll learn that
the quadratic roots both involve nonzero
imaginary parts so there are extraneous
roots they can't be the answer to our
original problem because we're looking
for a real value of x this means the
answer is X is equal to 1 Wow this is a
most unexpected answer for a simple
algebra problem
now you might double check this exercise
by typing it in Wolfram Alpha will it
give the answer of 1 you might
surprisingly find that it gives a
complex answer with a nonzero imaginary
part what's going on well Wolfram Alpha
is using the principal root the reason
is the equation X cubed equals C has
three solutions and Wolfram Alpha will
take the principal branch cut which is
most commonly used in higher mathematics
but we don't want the principal branch
cut we want the real valued root so how
can we force Wolfram Alpha to do that
there are a couple of ways one is you
can use the command of cube root that in
fact will give you the real valued root
and you will get the answer 1 and for
other roots
can use the command absurd of X comma n
this will give you the real nth root of
X it's a pretty neat problem thanks for
watching these math videos available for
free on YouTube build confidence for
students and inspire mathematical
discovery for viewers around the world
they have over a hundred million views
and the channel has over 1 million
subscribers please subscribe for free to
the newest videos you can email me a
puzzle or mat topic pressure and mind
your decisions calm if you so choose you
can check out my merchandise on
teespring
you can check out my books listed in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon thanks for watching and
thanks for your support